---
layout: post
title: How to keep your database updated with .NET Core and Simple.Migrations
tags: tutorial csharp showdev
---

Have you ever needed to create a new environment for your application to reproduce an issue? But, you forgot to run one or two scripts to create columns in a table and your application couldn't even start. Or you found out the database schema and your scripts under version control are out of sync. Or, even worse, you couldn't find the missing scripts emailed to you?

## Let's migrate

You can create or update your database schema using migrations. A migration is an uniquely identified database operation. It can be applied and reverted. Migrations allow reproducible database creation and updates. You can rollback the database structure to a previous state, if needed. _No more emails with database scripts!_

### Simple.Migration

[Simple.Migration](https://github.com/canton7/Simple.Migrations) _"is a simple bare-bones migration framework for .NET Core"_. It provides _"a set of simple, extendable, and composable tools for integrating migrations into your application"_. 

Simple.Migrations has out-of-the-box [database providers](https://github.com/canton7/Simple.Migrations#database-providers) for SQL Server, SQLite, PostreSQL and MySQL. But, you can create your own provider too.

Let's create our first migration for an employees database using SQL Server. You can use [SQL Server Express LocalDB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/configure-windows/sql-server-express-localdb?view=sql-server-ver15) shipped with Visual Studio.

### Create a new `Employees` table

First, create a class `CreateEmployees` inheriting from `Migration`. This class should override two methods: `Up` and `Down`. _Don't forget to install Simple.Migrations NuGet package._

The `Up` method should contain the SQL statement to create the `Employee` table. And, the `Down` method should contain the statements to remove this table.

You can use the `Execute` method from the `Migration` class to run your SQL statements. But, you have a `Connection` property of type `DbConnection` to bring your own ORM of choice.

**A migration should use be uniquely identified**. You need to use a version number in the `Migration` attribute that annotates your class. Either a consecutive number or a timestamp-like number is fine. Make sure to not to repeat the version number. Otherwise you will get a `MigrationLoadFailedException`.

```csharp
[Migration(1)]
public class CreateEmployees : Migration
{
    protected override void Up()
    {
        Execute(@"CREATE TABLE Employees
                (
                    [Id] [int] PRIMARY KEY IDENTITY(1,1) NOT NULL,
                    [SSO] [varchar](24) NOT NULL,
                    [FirstName] [varchar](255) NOT NULL,
                    [MiddleName] [varchar](255) NOT NULL,
                    [LastName] [varchar](255) NOT NULL,
                    [Salary] [decimal](18) NOT NULL,
                    [CreatedDate] [datetime] NULL,
                    [UpdatedDate] [datetime] NULL,
                )");
    }

    protected override void Down()
    {
        Execute(@"DROP TABLE Employees");
    }
}
```

### Apply our first migration

The next step is to create a console application to apply this migration. Inside the `Main` method, create a connection to your database and use the `SimpleMigrator` class. It needs the assembly containing the migrations and a database provider. In this case, `MssqlDatabaseProvider` is the appropriate provider.

With the `SimpleMigrator` class, you can use two methods: `MigrateTo` and `MigrateToLatest`. `MigrateTo` applies an specific version. And `MigrateToLatest`, all versions up to the latest one. Before using any of these two methods, make sure to call the `Load` method.

```csharp
class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        var connString = @"Data Source=(localdb)\MSSQLLocalDB;Initial Catalog=Payroll;Integrated Security=True;";
        using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connString))
        {
            var databaseProvider = new MssqlDatabaseProvider(connection);
            var migrator = new SimpleMigrator(typeof(AssemblyWithYourMigrations).Assembly, databaseProvider);
            migrator.Load();
            migrator.MigrateToLatest();
        }
    }
}
```

Run your console application to apply your first migration. Simple.Migrations creates a `dbo.VersionInfo` table on your database.  This table keeps track of the applied migrations. 

Id | Version | AppliedOn | Description |
1 |	1 | 	8/13/2020 4:24:18 PM |	CreateEmployees

### Add a column to an existing table

Now, suppose you need to add a `Type` column to the `Employees` table. This time, create an `AddTypeToEmployee` class with the SQL statements needed. Remember, you need a different version number.

```csharp
[Migration(2)]
public class AddTypeToEmployee : Migration
{
    protected override void Up()
    {
        Execute(@"ALTER TABLE Employees
                  ADD Type VARCHAR(8) NULL");
    }

    protected override void Down()
    {
        Execute(@"ALTER TABLE Employees
                  DROP COLUMN Type");
    }
}
```

Again, run the console application. Notice how the `Employees` and `VersionInfo` tables have changed.
 
### A runner

Finally, you can create a runner to apply your migrations. Simple.Migrations has a predefined [console runner](https://github.com/canton7/Simple.Migrations#consolerunner).

Let's use .NET Core configuration options to move the connection string to a settings file. Then, the `ConfigurationBuilder` class will load the json file. You need two install two NuGet packages: `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.Json`. 

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "YourConnString": "Data Source=(localdb)\\MSSQLLocalDB;Initial Catalog=Payroll;Integrated Security=True;"
  }
}
```

If you're using different environments, you can read the environment name from an environment variable. And, you can group the settings files to appear [nested in the File Explorer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43846079/can-files-be-nested-in-vs2017-solution-explorer-for-net-core-non-asp-net-core) in Visual Studio.

The `ConsoleRunner` reads the commands `up` to migrate to the latest version, `to` to migrate to an specific version and `down` to revert back to a version. If the command arguments you provide are invalid, you will get a help message.

```csharp
class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        var connString = Configuration().GetConnectionString("YourConnString");
        using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connString))
        {
            var databaseProvider = new MssqlDatabaseProvider(connection);
            var migrator = new SimpleMigrator(typeof(AssemblyWithYourMigrations).Assembly, databaseProvider);

            var consoleRunner = new ConsoleRunner(migrator);
            consoleRunner.Run(args);

            Console.ReadKey();
        }
    }

    public static IConfigurationRoot Configuration()
    {
        var environmentName = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("DOTNET_ENVIRONMENT");

        var configurationBuilder = new ConfigurationBuilder()
            .AddJsonFile("appsettings.json")
            .AddJsonFile($"appsettings.{environmentName}.json", optional: true);
        return configurationBuilder.Build();
    }
}
```

## Conclusion

As your software project grows, your database structure needs to evolve. But, if you don't control these changes, you will end up with maintainability issues. Migrations are a better alternative to running scripts directly into your database. You can use migrations to create constraints and indexes. With migrations, your database structure is under version control and code review as it should be.

> _Your mission, Jim, should you decide to accept it, is to add a `Payments` table with a relation to the `Employees` table. It should contain an id, a date, a paid value and the employee id. This post will self-destruct in five seconds. Good luck, Jim._


