---
layout: post
title: "Best of 2021"
tags: writing
cover: Cover.png
cover-alt: "Best of 2021" 
---

In 2021, I switched from posting whenever I had an idea about anything to posting regularly every other week about some topics.

I wrote a whole series of posts about unit testing. From how to write your first unit test with MSTest to what stubs and mocks are. In fact, I wrote my first ebook [Unit Testing 101]({% post_url 2021-08-30-UnitTesting %}) with some of the posts of the series. By the way, you can download it for free. No email asked.

These are the 5 posts I wrote in 2021 you read the most. In case you missed any of them, here they are:

1. [How to name your unit tests. 4 test naming conventions]({% post_url 2021-04-12-UnitTestNamingConventions %}). This post is part of the Unit Testing 101 series. Four ideas to better name our unit tests. All of them, to write names easy to understand.
2. [What are fakes in unit testing: mocks vs stubs]({% post_url 2021-05-24-WhatAreFakesInTesting %}). Again, part of Unit Testing 101. This post shows what fakes, stubs, and mocks are. It might sound difficult, but it isn't.
3. [TIL: How to convert 2-digit year to 4-digit year in C#]({% post_url 2021-02-24-ParseTwoDigitYear %}). Last year, I worked with a Stripe-powered payment module in a reservation management system. And, I needed to parse card expiration dates from a 2-digit year to a 4-digit year. I almost just added 2000 to them. But I didn't. This is what I found and did instead.
4. [Decorator pattern. A real example in C#]({% post_url 2021-02-10-DecoratorPattern %}). My favorite pattern. This post shows how to implement a retry mechanism on top of Stripe API client.
5. [A quick guide to LINQ with examples]({% post_url 2021-01-18-LinqGuide %}). I wrote this post to answer a friend. All you need to know to start working with LINQ in 15 minutes or less.

Voilà! These were your 5 favorite posts. Hope you enjoy them. Probably, you found digests of these posts on my <a href="{{ site.devto }}" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">dev.to</a> account too.

_Thanks for reading, and happy coding!_