---
layout: post
title: "The Best Books I Read in 2024 (Even If I Didn't Read Many)"
tags: misc
---

In 2024, I stopped being a serial book reader, keeping a tally of books I read.

I went from "let's read anything and everything" to "let's read what I need to read." From just-in-case to just-in-time reading. I realized I had a long list of book notes, but I didn't remember reading some of those books.

[Naval Ravikant's reading strategy]({% post_url 2024-11-29-ReadingMore %}) helped me change my mind about books. And I adopted some reading methods into [my own reading method]({% post_url 2024-05-13-HowToReadNonFictionBooks %}).

Instead of reading a long list of books, I immersed myself in a single writer's world.

By accident, I found [James Altucher's work]({% post_url 2024-11-11-LessonsFromJamesAltucher %}) and I've been following him since then. I reread "Reinvent Yourself" and read "Choose Yourself." Those are the best ones I've read.

## Reinvent Yourself

This was one of those books I didn't remember reading, even when I had notes. Later, listening to James Altucher's interviews, I made the connection and reread it.

We can't rely on the same skills we learned 5 years ago. We need to reinvent ourselves every 5 years. And here, reinvention means finding new income sources.

To start a reinvention, we should [read 500 books on any subject]({% post_url 2024-11-20-Read500Books %}). That would take us around 5 years.

## Choose Yourself

This is *the* best book I read this year.

Often, we're waiting for someone to save us or choose us. Someone will see how smart we are and give us a job. Someone will see how attractive we are and choose us as life partners...The government, our boss, or a rich guy that doesn't know what to do with his money. One day, someone will save us.

The truth is no one is coming to rescue us. We should choose ourselves.

We start choosing ourselves by taking care of our body, mind, and spirit every day: moving our bodies, doing something creative, and [writing 10 ideas a day]({% post_url 2024-11-05-IdeaMachine %}). Working on things we love and being surrounded by people we love. 

And we don't need anyone's permission for that. The internet has created a world without permissions. The only permission we need is from ourselves.

***

Apart from these two, I read [Choose Yourself Guide to Wealth]({% post_url 2025-01-19-ChooseYourselfGuideToWealth %}), and I have on my pile to read "The Power of No" and "Skip the Line." All of them by James Altucher. Yes, I'm immersed in James Altucher's work these days.

Some honorable mentions: this year, I also read "E-Myth Revisited," "You Are a Writer," "Slow Productivity," and "The Anxious Generation."

I can't say one book has changed my life. But, those two books gave enough ideas and inspiration to take care of health and get life on track after a season of burned out.
