---
layout: post
title: "Best of 2023"
tags: writing
cover: Cover.png
cover-alt: "Best of 2023"
---

In 2023, I realized that I've been [blogging for five years]({% post_url 2023-07-18-FiveYearsOfBlogging %}). [I started this blog]({% post_url 2020-07-18-HowIStartedBlogging %}) to keep some notes online. Since then, I've used my blog to share my learned lessons, answer questions, and rant out loud. I consider my blog as [my time capsule]({% post_url 2020-07-20-TimeCapsule %}).

Last year, I wrote 23 posts. I tried to write one post every other week.

I wrote a series of posts about [NullReferenceException]({% post_url 2023-02-20-WhatNullReferenceExceptionIs %}), "the billion dollar mistake," and expanded it into <a href="https://www.educative.io/courses/mastering-nullreference-exception-prevention-in-c-sharp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">a mini-course on Educative</a>.

I updated my ASP.NET posts to use .NET 6.0, the most recent LTS version the last year.

In one of my client's projects, I worked with ORMLite. I wrote about [pasing a datatable as parameter]({% post_url 2023-06-26-PassDataTableOrmLite %}) and [joining to subqueries]({% post_url 2023-10-16-SubqueriesAndOrmLite %}). I was too lazy to write SQL queries by hand for those two edge cases. Also, I shared [five lessons I learned while working with ORMLite]({% post_url 2023-10-30-LessonsOnOrmLite %}).

I got an interesting question through [my contact page](/contact). I could shared my advice on [how to start an ultralearning project]({% post_url 2023-07-24-AdviceToStartAnUltralearningProject %}).

## Five posts you read the most

These are the five posts I wrote in 2023 you read the most. In case you missed any of them, here they are:

1. [Goodbye, NullReferenceException: What it is and how to avoid it]({% post_url 2023-02-20-WhatNullReferenceExceptionIs %}). 
2. [Goodbye, NullReferenceException: Option and LINQ]({% post_url 2023-03-20-UseOptionInsteadOfNull %}). 
3. [Goodbye, NullReferenceException: Nullable Operators and References]({% post_url 2023-03-06-NullableOperatorsAndReferences %}).
4. [Too many layers: My take on Queries and Layers]({% post_url 2023-08-07-TooManyLayers %}). While working with one of my clients, I had to write a lot of response objects and mapping methods to implement read-only API endpoints. This post contains my thoughts on taking layering to the extreme.
5. [Goodbye, NullReferenceException: Separate State in Separate Objects]({% post_url 2023-04-03-SeparateStateIntoSeparateObjects %}). This is how to apply the "make illegal state unrepresentable" mantra to avoid the NullReferenceException.

Last year, I continued working as an independent contractor and content writer. I continued writing for <a href="https://www.alachisoft.com/blogs/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">NCache official blog</a>. I started offering onsite courses and training in my city. Unfortunately, I saw a lot of coworkers [being laid off]({% post_url 2023-08-21-OnLayoffs %}). I hope they all had found "greener pastures."

Voilà! That's my 2023 in review and your five favorite posts. I hope you enjoyed them as much as I did writing them.

If any of my posts have helped you and you want to support my work, <a href="https://www.educative.io/profile/view/5684280228839424" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">check my courses on Educative</a> or buy me a coffee, tea, or hamburger by <a href="https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">downloading my ebooks from my Gumroad page</a>.

Don't miss my [best of 2021]({% post_url 2022-01-10-BestOf2021 %}) and [best of 2022]({% post_url 2023-01-09-BestOf2022 %}).

_Thanks for reading, and happy coding in 2024!_