---
layout: post
title: "Reading Is a Cheat Code to Better Writing"
tags: writing
---

Last year, I challenged myself to revive my LinkedIn account by writing 100 posts.

I didn't know what to write or how to write it. I only had good intentions.

My first posts were crap. Of course, [90% of everything is crap]({% post_url 2025-01-02-SturgeonLaw %}). I made every sin possible in my first posts: emojis, a big wall of text, external links...I'm embarrassed by those first posts.

## But reading as a creator changed my writing.

I started to notice the posts I opened and read.

I collected the opening lines of the posts I opened. I created a file with my favorite openers. Then I stole (like an artist) those hooks to write my own.

Every time I clicked "See more" and found a big wall of text, I stopped reading. To avoid this mistake, I started to write shorter posts.

When I realized I never clicked on any of the external links in the posts I found, I stopped adding external links to my posts.

And I noticed how my favorite creators structured their posts. So I ditched emojis and started to add blank lines, use shorter sentences, and make my posts mobile friendly.

## "Writing is learned mainly by imitation"

That's from [Writing to Learn by William Zinsser]({% post_url 2025-01-20-WritingToLearn %}).

To improve your writing, imitate your favorite writers to develop your own style.

Notice the opening lines of your favorite books, collect headlines, and hand-write your favorite pieces. That's how you get better at writing.

To learn to write, stop blindly consuming content. Put on your creator glasses and start noticing your behavior as a reader. That's your cheat code to better writing.
