---
layout: post
title: "10 Features of a Non-Addictive Social Platform"
tags: misc
---

Every beep, buzz, and notification is designed to keep us hooked.

The other day while preparing my [Friday Links email](https://fridaylinks.beehiiv.com/subscribe), I found [Seven39](https://www.seven39.com/). A social media platform that only opens from 7:39PM to 10:39PM EST.

It made me think of what features I'd like to see on a non-addictive social media app:

**#1. It only opens on a fixed schedule.** Inspired by Seven39 itself. Or, instead of a fixed schedule for everyone, users set their own open hours, capped at two hours per day.

**#2. It only allows you to have 150 connections, at most.**

**#3. After open hours, it goes into "dumb" mode** or simply kicks you out, and you can't log in again.

**#4. It only allows a maximum number of interactions**, such as likes, comments, or reposts, per day.

**#5. Users are limited to one post per day.** You're better off thinking carefully about what you want to share. You only have one shot.

**#6. It's invitation-only.**

**#7. It doesn't email you**, except for authentication and security reasons. No email notifications at all. No "someone viewed your profile."

**#8. No endless feed for you to scroll.** You can only interact directly with your connections.

**#9. It has no notifications while you're online.** You should only receive a daily digest of your connections' activity on your post.

**#10. It has no metrics.** Just likes.

A platform like this needs a name. What about these?
1. BeepZero: No beeps. No notifications. Just connection.
2. TinCan: Your friends, you, and a tin can phone.
3. NoSocial: The nosocial media platform.

Which one is your favorite? Mine is TinCan. 

Would you sign up for a platform like this? Of course, after you receive an invitation.
