---
layout: post
title: "The Simple Yet Effective Content Strategy and 5 Key Lessons from a Millionaire Creator"
tags: writing
---

In 2024, I went all in with my writing. One of the biggest inspirations behind that leap was Dan Koe.

He has more than 500K followers on X/Twitter, over 200 videos on his YouTube channel, and has sold millions online. He's one of those internet names that made me believe making money online is possible.

This time, I watched this interview between Dan Koe and Callum Johnson.

<div class="video-container">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/g1GYGoMisE0?rel=0&fs=0" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0"></iframe>
</div>

Here are some of my takeaways:

**#1. A brand isn't about colors, headshots, or taglines.** A brand is an environment you invite people into. It's your goals, interests, and perspective.

**#2. If you don't know where to start your journey, start with an anti-vision**: things you don't want in your life. For most of us, that's going back to a full-time job to work on something we don't care about.

**#3. Start by helping others solve a problem you already have solved.** And your first product could be an improved version of a product that transformed your life. Create it and promote it to your past self.

**#4. A content strategy doesn't have to be complicated.** One long-form piece repurposed into social media posts every week. And every social media post invites people to your newsletter, where you promote your products.

**#5. Nothing is original.** Creating is about remixing ideas. And if you share it in your own words it's not copying or stealing.

**#6. You don't need to be discouraged if a "big name" or influencer offers something similar to what you offer.** That's a faulty belief that assumes everyone knows and follows every influencer.

I always remember one of Dan Koe's quotes: _"The goal is being paid to be you."_ That's [one of my favorite quotes]({% post_url 2025-01-06-BestQuote2024 %}). A niche isn't just about talking only about one topic forever. Your goals, mission, and transformation make you the niche. Don't chase trends, create and sell to you. You are the niche.
