---
layout: post
title: "My 400 Daily Posts Reflection"
tags: writing
---

Writing 400 daily posts gave me momentum as a writer.

The first 100 posts were training to find ideas. The next 100 proved I wouldn't run out of ideas. The next 100 tested my discipline, I wrote even when tired. This last 100 gave me trust to keep going.

In the last 3 months, I released a book, [Street-Smart Coding]({% post_url 2025-10-28-StreetSmartCoding %}) and I shared the behind-the-scenes:
* [Some hard-earned lessons]({% post_url 2025-11-16-LaunchingABook %})
* [Some truths nobody told me]({% post_url 2025-11-22-HardTruthsWritingABook %})
* [my strategy to work with beta readers]({% post_url 2025-10-09-BetaReaders %})
* [how to finish the next one faster]({% post_url 2025-10-04-ABookFaster %})

Promoting my book won me [my first hater]({% post_url 2025-11-02-Haters %}), a milestone in the writing journey.

But beyond criticism, writing daily gave me something more lasting: _"the time capsule"_ effect.

And after many posts, I can see what I was learning each day years ago. I even started to write some "on this day" posts. Here's [the last one]({% post_url 2025-10-05-AroundThisDate %}) I wrote.

That's a gift for future generations: reading what grandpa wrote 20 years ago.

## My most-read and favorite posts

Here are some of the most-read posts from the last 100 days:

* [5 Lessons from My Team's Architect That Helped Me Become a Senior Developer]({% post_url 2025-10-25-LessonsFromMentor %})
* [The One Rule I Follow to Code with AI (Without Losing My Skills)]({% post_url 2025-10-14-AIRule %})
* [Don't Write the Next Atomic Habits. Write Mini-Books Instead]({% post_url 2025-10-07-MiniBooks %})
* [10 Lessons From Steal Like an Artist That Transformed My Creativity]({% post_url 2025-11-08-StealLikeAnArtist %})
* [8 Reading Habits I Learned from Ryan Holiday, the Stoic Book Master]({% post_url 2025-09-08-StoicBookReading %})
* [Four Lessons I Learned While Standing By My Mom's Battle With Chronic Disease]({% post_url 2025-11-29-Fighting %})

Here are my [100-post]({% post_url 2025-02-09-100DailyPosts %}), [200-post]({% post_url 2025-05-20-200DailyPosts %}), and [300-post]({% post_url 2025-09-01-300DailyPosts %}). Next milestone to celebrate: 500 daily posts.
