---
layout: post
title: "4 Fresh Insights That Changed How I Think About Writing Books"
tags: writing
---

I've decided to start a new writing adventure: writing a book.

I've had to debunk lots of limiting beliefs.
* "I need a publisher"
* "I need 100% new material"
* "Writing a book is hard."

Wrong!

After going down the rabbit-hole of searching how to write and self-publish a book, here's what I've learned:

## 1. A hit book creates demand for more books.

After _Atomic Habits_, there was an audience interested in habit creation. Then, more books about the same topic came out.

A hit book isn't necessarily competence. It's signal of market interest.

## 2. You can plagiarize yourself.

[We can remix our own ideas]({% post_url 2025-06-24-Remixing %}). Credits to James Altucher's podcast.

A good post can become part of a book chapter. A series of posts can become a short book. A personal story can become an intro.

That's the strategy Yuval Noah Harari used to write _21 Lessons for the 21st Century_. He compiled lots of disperse ideas into a book.

More examples? _The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck_ was a blog post. _The Psychology of Money_, a series of posts.

You see? We can repurpose our posts into books.

## 3. A book's job is to tell stories.

(Another lesson from James Altucher's podcast.)

Always be storytelling. Stories are the best way to make a message memorable.

Our job is to tell stories, not to present facts - unless we're writing a textbook or something.

## 4. A book lives forever.

Your book doesn't need to be a best-seller at launch. It can succeed anytime. And there's plenty of time for that.
