---
layout: post
title: "Three Things to Remember When the Haters Show Up"
tags: misc
---

Future me:

Yesterday I woke up to a comment on a coding post we reposted on Medium. It said, "you are just marketing your book." It included some profanity, but I'm not adding it here.

I just launched [Street-Smart Coding]({% post_url 2025-10-28-StreetSmartCoding %}) last week. And yes, I've been promoting it by [turning every post into a sales rep]({% post_url 2025-10-11-ContentThatSells %}). Hey, singers promote their concerts and writers go on podcast tours, right?

Here are three reminders for you, future me:

## #1. Remember the 30/30/30 rule

Keep in mind that no matter what you do:
* 30% will love it
* 30% will hate it
* 30% won't even care

Well, technically it's 33.333333%, but you get the point. That commenter was just part of the second 30%.

And good or bad publicity is still publicity. That hateful comment was signaling Mr. Algorithm to promote your post even more.

## #2. Remember why you started

There's a hill to die on:

Either you sell something (even a $1 pdf) or sell your time in a 9-5. You're not going to like one of the two.

And if you choose to stay away from a 9-5, you'll have to [embrace sales and marketing]({% post_url 2025-05-10-Selling %}). You have to be your own sales team.

## #3. Fight your negativity bias

A single negative comment will make you forget the thousands of positive ones.

Open your victories file and your book sales. That's your first 30%. Show up for them. Here's [a small victory]({% post_url 2025-07-02-Victories %})...and [another one here]({% post_url 2025-09-03-Victories %}).

You spent years building somebody else's dream and business. Now build yours. Don't be ashamed of promoting your own work. Influencers and [millionaire writers do it]({% post_url 2025-06-01-DanKoe %}). You can do it too.

Let them talk. You keep doing your work.

Read this as many times as you need.
