---
layout: post
title: "Ditch Your Helpers and Utilities Classes Before They Ruin Your Code"
tags: coding
---

Recently, I needed to track down how an old Visual Basic WebForms app stored a value from the database into the Session object.

But I didn't know I was in trouble until I looked for the file in the GitHub repository and it said _"(Sorry about that, but we can't show files that are this big right now.)"_

The file had 69,359 lines. Its name? `GlobalFunctions.vb`. You can guess what was in there just by looking at that name, right? It was a clear symptom of a deeper problem.

## The problem?

The problem isn't that it was a WebForms app in Visual Basic. We can write crappy code in any programming language. It was that huge "throw everything under the carpet" kind-of file.

It reminded me of [one of the conventions I decided to ban]({% post_url 2022-12-07-BanningSomeNamingConventions %}): "Helpers" and "Utility" classes, full of unrelated static methods.

## The solution?

If you're tempted to write anything named with "Helpers," "Utilities," or worse,  "GlobalFunctions," please stop and consider how to split that class into smaller, more focused classes with clearer names. Smaller, well-named classes ease cognitive load, making them easier to work with.

Or even better, if [you're practicing DDD]({% post_url 2022-10-03-HandsOnDDDTakeaways %}), before defaulting to a "Utility" class, ask yourself: does this belong inside an entity or [value object]({% post_url 2022-12-21-WhenToChooseValueObjects %}) instead?

Writing readable code, by ditching Utility classes, is just one of the skills to master. But it takes more than typing symbols to become a senior coder. That's why I wrote _Street-Smart Coding: 30 Ways to Get Better at Coding._ It's the roadmap I wish I had when I was starting out.

_[Grab your copy of Street-Smart Coding here](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcoding/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=ditch-helpers-utilities-classes-they-ruin-your-code)_
