---
layout: post
title: "10 Reasons Why I Write 10 Bad Ideas Every Day"
tags: misc
---

Since October 2024, I've been writing 10 bad ideas every day.

OK, maybe I've missed a day or two. But when that happens I write another 10-idea list to keep up.

I found this habit by pure accident. I was looking for ways to improve my writing skills. And I found "write 10 headlines a day." That was inspired by James Altucher's concept of [becoming an idea machine]({% post_url 2024-11-05-IdeaMachine %}).
 
Since then, I've written 10 bad ideas for books I could write, courses I could create, and writing experiments to run. The point isn't to come up with good ideas and execute each one, but to think freely and expand our horizons.

That's one of the habits I'm sticking to, here are 10 reasons why:

**#1. It helps me calm myself down when stressed.** Writing 10 ideas redirects my brain from [a stressful situation]({% post_url 2025-04-19-CalmDown %}) to a higher-priority task.

**#2. It helps me generate content ideas for blog posts and LinkedIn posts.** Often I turn my 10-idea lists into multiple pieces of content I post online. This post started as a 10 idea list.

**#3. It helps me decompose a big project into smaller tasks.** Before starting a big project, list 10 initial ideas. Then pick one of those first 10 ideas and write another 10 to execute on it.

**#4. It helps me keep my brain sharp.** It's exercise for my brain. Alzheimer's, stay away from me.

**#5. It helps me do something creative every day.** Writing 10 bad ideas a day keeps my possibility and creativity muscles strong.

**#6. It helps me avoid ruminating thoughts.** Again, it shifts my focus from [reliving the past]({% post_url 2024-12-19-TimeTravel %}) to a more productive task.

**#7. It helps me train my focus.** I try not to think about anything else until I write 10 ideas. But there are thousands of thoughts coming and going. The goal is to focus on hitting 10 ideas. And that's hard.

**#8. It replaces note taking.** After finishing a podcast episode or book, I write a "10 lessons learned" list. It helps me with recalling and retention.

**#9. It teaches me to simplify my sentences.** I use a notepad that fits into my back pocket, so I don't have much space to write a paragraph. I need to write a short sentence.

**#10. It helps me use my cellphone less.** Life happens away from screens. And since I use old pen and paper to write my ideas, that's time away from my phone. I started with a DIY notepad made from recycled materials. Then I bought a real notepad.

I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say writing 10 ideas a day has made me more creative. Well, without any drama, it has helped me keep my daily writing streak.

Grab pen and paper and write your first 10 bad ideas. They will push your brain and challenge your creativity.
