---
layout: post
title: "Want To Write As A Coder? Start With TIL Posts"
tags: writing
---

If you want to start a coding blog, don't start with a deep dive of the Linux Kernel or other cryptic topics, unless you're an expert on them.

## Instead write short "Today I Learned" (TIL) posts.

TIL posts are shorter posts where you share something you've found or figured out.

When writing TIL posts, you don't have to worry about long introductions or conclusions. Just write a good headline, a code block, a quick explanation, and your sources. And [write using your own words]({% post_url 2024-12-24-WritingVoice %}), like in a conversation with a coworker. Here are [my TIL posts](/tags/todayilearned/) as example.

That's enough to [make a post worth reading]({% post_url 2025-03-11-BloggingTips %}).

## TIL posts invite people into your learning journey.

Don't try to lecture the coding world about what they should do. Start documenting your learning instead.

Instead of writing _"5 VS Code extensions every coder should install,"_ try _"TIL: 5 VS Code extensions I couldn't avoid installing."_

Or instead of _"5 Git commands every coder should know,"_ covering the same basic Git commands, write _"TIL: 5 Git basic commands to use everyday"_ or _"TIL: How Git Status works."_

Did you spend [20 minutes or more figuring out something]({% post_url 2024-09-09-WritingIdeas %})? write a TIL post. That's the easiest way to start a coding blog. And [don't think of writing your own blogging engine]({% post_url 2024-09-23-StrugglingToWrite %}).

Apart from coding, writing has been one of the best skills I've developed as a coder. It's taught me to research, organize, and present ideas clearly.

That's why I made it one of the strategies in my book, _Street-Smart Coding: 30 Ways to Get Better at Coding._ It's the guide I wish I had when I was starting out, trying to go from junior to senior.

_[Get your copy of Street-Smart Coding here](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcoding/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=start-with-til-posts)_
