---
layout: post
title: "Junior Coders: The One Rule You Should Follow to Adopt AI"
tags: coding
---

_"Is using AI totally forbidden?"_
_"When and how should I use it?"_
_"What's your take on vibecoding?"_

I was on [a firechat with a community of new coders]({% post_url 2025-09-11-ALXSept2025 %}) last week. Those questions kept popping up. They all wanted to know about AI.

I get it! There's a lot of noise:

* [AI is taking our jobs]({% post_url 2025-04-25-WillAITakeMyJob %}).
* _"%X of code is generated by AI at $BigCorp."_
* Some guy shared on Twitter/X that he built an app with no coding skills and now he's retired, drinking martinis in the Caribbean.

Don't be discouraged by those headlines. (There's a lot of nuance behind them.) [We're living in the best time to learn coding]({% post_url 2025-08-18-TooLateToLearnCoding %}).

You won't like it, but... Here's the rule:

**Don't use AI to generate code until you're comfortable coding on your own.**

If you only copy and paste what ChatGPT, Cursor, or _$NewestFastestLLM_ gives you, [you're in trouble]({% post_url 2025-07-13-TheProblemWithAI %}). You need to know if what that tool is spitting out is good code. And for that, you need your own judgment.

When in doubt, think of [AI as a powerful calculator in math class]({% post_url 2025-03-31-AIAndCalculators %}). It makes you faster, but you still need to know how to solve equations. The thinking part is still yours.

AI can spit out code in seconds, even with a bad prompt. But coding is more than syntax. It's also about teamwork, clear communication, and problem solving. 
That's why I wrote _Street-Smart Coding: 30 Ways to Get Better at Coding_, a practical guide to the skills that actually make you a better coder. It's the roadmap I wish I had when I was starting out.

_[Get your copy of Street-Smart Coding here](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcoding)_
