---
layout: post
title: "10 Simple Ways to Calm Your Mind in Stressful Moments"
tags: misc
---

Yesterday, it took me nearly half an hour to calm down.

I had just rushed to the ER with a loved one. And I simply couldn't switch off my brain's fight response. All the stress chemicals must have been at their highest.

Once the emergency passed, my body refused to relax. I was still in fight mode. To take control back, I tricked my brain into focusing on something else: [writing a 10-idea list]({% post_url 2024-11-05-IdeaMachine %}).

Here are some other alternatives to try when stressed:

**1. Follow the 3-3-3 breathing rhythm:** Inhale for 3 seconds, hold for another 3, and exhale for 3.

**2. Write 10 ideas about anything:** Give your brain another task.

**3. Do some physical exercise:** Go running or lift some weights. Move anyway.

**4. Listen to Dark Side of the Moon:** I'm not a fan of Pink Floyd. In fact, that's the only album I've known from them. But for some reason, I found it relaxing, especially track number 4, The Great Gig in the Sky. I feel those cries of desperation just like mine.

**5. Listen to relaxing sounds:** A river, ocean, or birds singing.

**6. Watch stand-up comedy:** You can't be happy and stressed at the same time. Trick your brain into changing its mood.

**7. Watch an episode of a TV show:** TV can help you get out of your busy mind and distract you.

**8. Meditate:** Similar to #1. Repeat a mantra like: "breathe, calm down, and get out of your mind."

**9. Pray:** Let your feelings out of your chest.

**10. Do some cleaning:** Again, it's a way to trick your brain into doing something else. It helps you get out of your mind and into something physical.
