---
layout: post
title: "How MedAI Will Transform Hospitals and Patient Care by 2035: My Predictions"
tags: misc
---

It's 2035. AI didn't kill many jobs as we thought in 2025.

[The world still needs coders]({% post_url 2024-04-29-2034Predictions %}). There are still pilots in the cockpits of airplanes. And there are still doctors and nurses in hospitals.

But AI has changed many jobs. Just like Photoshop changed graphic design and AutoCad, architecture.

## One day, you're not feeling well. And you have to rush to the ER.

Just like in 2025, a nurse receives you at the hospital.

But there's something different this time. The hospital is run using **MedAI**.

As you describe your symptoms to a nurse, MedAI transcribes them and creates an initial report. It also studies your changes in intonation and breathing patterns to tell how sick you are or if you're just looking for an excuse to skip work today.

MedAI helps the nurse in triage, making sure you receive medical attention as quickly as possible. While MedAI processes all this data, the nurse can focus on preparing you for the next steps.

## After waiting for a few minutes in a room, a doctor calls you into the examination room.

By the time you get there, MedAI has summarized your records from past visits.

It has told your doctor when you visited the hospital and your diagnosis on each visit. Also, MedAI helped your doctor determine if your new symptoms are somehow related to past visits.

Your doctor doesn't need to examine your vitals.

Using cameras and sensors, MedAI monitors your vitals: temperature, breathing, and heart rate. Are you vomiting? Shivering uncontrollably? Struggling to stand without help? MedAI quickly assesses these symptoms, allowing your doctor to focus on examining where it hurts.

After examining you, MedAI scans the hospital database for genetic conditions or recent similar cases among your relatives or other patients. Is it a family problem? A virus outbreak in the city?

That will give your doctor more clues for your diagnosis.

## Your doctor gives you an initial treatment to relieve your pain and orders you some tests.

MedAI has helped your doctor prescribe any medicines based on your allergies or other health issues.

_"Dr Williams, this patient is allergic to XYZ. And on a past visit, this treatment increased his blood pressure. Here are some alternatives to those medications: ..."_

By the time your test results are ready. MedAI has summarized the main findings. _"He has low XYZ, high ABC. Everything else seems normal for his sex, age, and health condition."_

Armed with your vitals, exams, and preliminary diagnosis, MedAI has narrowed down your diagnosis to one or two issues and suggested a treatment for each one.

Your doctor has to double-check those suggestions and approve your treatment. You have to stay at the hospital for close observation.

## While you are under observation, MedAI creates a daily report of your evolution.

_"His blood pressure has been stable. No more signs of pain. A change of medication is needed in the next two hours."_

Also, MedAI has created a dietary plan for your visit, recommending the right food for you, given your overall health condition. _"This is a patient with sugar problems. Here's a list of recommended meals for his stay..."_

Your doctor approves it and MedAI sends it to the hospital kitchen.

## After a day or two, you feel OK again.

Your doctor prioritized your well-being and gave you the emotional support only a charismatic doctor can give.

Meanwhile MedAI assisted him at each step of your treatment, from monitoring your vitals to making sure your treatment was suited to your needs. MedAI was the caring and supportive assistant, but your doctor was still in charge. Just like a pilot is still in charge of a plane through the skies.

_Open again in 2035._
