---
layout: post
title: "Re: I Use AI When I Code. And Sometimes It Makes Me Feel Like I'm Cheating"
tags: coding
---

Is using AI cheating?

That's a point Christoffer Madsen made in a recent post on [dev.to](https://dev.to/madsendev/i-use-ai-when-i-code-and-sometimes-it-makes-me-feel-like-im-cheating-4lja):

> _I use AI when I code. I don't hide that. But I also don't really talk about it. Because sometimes it feels like cheating._

That made me think:

If I copy-paste from StackOverflow, am I cheating?

If I use an open-source library, am I cheating?

If I ask for help, does that count as cheating?

We do those tasks daily. Maybe not always copy-pasting from StackOverflow.

## Where's the line?

When isn't using AI cheating? It feels like cheating when AI takes full control and writes code we wouldn't write ourselves.

[I do use AI too]({% post_url _posts/2025-10-23-AIManifesto %}): to generate boilerplate code and offload boring tasks. [That's where AI shines]({% post_url 2025-11-10-AIUseCases %}). But I stay in control, hands firmly on the wheel.

With or without AI, [we're paid to solve problems]({% post_url 2025-03-15-CodingForTwoAudiences %}), not just to write code. If we only turn user stories or specs into lines of code, [AI will eat us all alive]({% post_url 2025-04-25-WillAITakeMyJob %}).

When AI generates code faster than any of us, it's time to double down on collaboration, communication, and problem-solving. Those skills make us stand out as coders. That's why I wrote, _Street-Smart Coding: 30 Ways to Get Better at Coding Without Losing Your Mind_. Because being a great coder is more than just mastering syntax.

_[Grab your copy of Street-Smart Coding here](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcoding/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=re-use-ai-code)_. It's the roadmap I wish I had moving from junior to senior and the one I hope helps you too.
