---
layout: post
title: "I'll Keep My Personal Blog Even When Blogging Is Dead"
tags: writing
---

Blogging has been dead for years.

Dead in the sense of writing posts to rank on search engines and attract visitors for ads. Google killed that style of blogging with constant algorithm updates. And ChatGPT seemed to kill Googling.

But, personal blogs are still alive in some corners of the internet, like this one.

I'm a romantic. I'll keep writing on my blog, even if blogging is dead.

My blog is [my time capsule]({% post_url 2020-07-20-TimeCapsule %}) and [content vault]({% post_url 2025-01-27-TimesOfDeadBlogging %}). Everything that I write online ends up here. It's my catch-all place. [It's been better than a portfolio]({% post_url 2025-01-12-BlogVsPortfolio %}) for my coding career.

Each platform has its own set of unwritten rules. On LinkedIn, we're expected to write about business-related topics. On Medium, we're expected to write following publication guidelines. But a blog is a place without rules.

Mike Saas said in [Just Put It on Your Blog](https://shellsharks.com/just-put-it-on-your-blog):

> _It's great to have a place to share your thoughts. A place you can go back to when you want to remember something you had written or thought about before. A place you can refer people to when they have questions you've answered in the past. A place to be you._

My blog is my cabinet of curiosities, public notebook, and writing gym, away from social media's speed. And that's why I'll keep blogging, even if the internet says it's dead and even if [AI writes faster and better one day]({% post_url 2025-04-01-WhyIWillKeepWriting %}).
