---
layout: post
title: "I'm Writing a New Book to Help You Improve Your Coding Skills"
tags: coding book
---

I'm celebrating a small victory today: I finished the 1st draft of my next coding book.

_30 Ways to Get Better at Coding._

I'm not sure about that title yet. Most likely, I will change it for something shorter and more catchy.

But its promise? 30 proven tips to get good at coding. Some are conventional. Some learned the hard way. And a few... weird ones. But all battle-tested.

## Why I wrote it?

I went to a 5-year program to learn coding. Actually a bit longer because I had to write a stupid dissertation. But anyway...

My real coding journey started with one Google search: "how to get good at coding." I found lot of contradicting advice. That Google search put blogging under my radar. And that's [why I started my own blog]({% post_url 2020-07-18-HowIStartedBlogging %}).

It took me years and trial and error to find out what really works from all that free Internet advice.

That's why I wrote this book. Well, I'm still editing it. So you don't have to go down the same rabbit hole.

I wrote it for the younger me, sitting back at [my first job]({% post_url 2024-09-02-LessonsFromMyFirstCodingJob %}) reading any tutorial he could find. Full of passion and no direction.

These are the lessons I wish I had when I was starting out. The lessons I learned over 10 years of coding in tech companies and software agencies, making plenty of mistakes.

_In the meantime, if you want to receive updates about my book, join [Friday Links](https://fridaylinks.beehiiv.com/subscribe) to receive a short, 2-min email with curated resources about programming and software engineering. And feel free to grab a copy of my other books on [my Gumroad account](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/)._
