---
layout: post
title: "I Thought I'd Run Out of Ideas—but 200 Posts Proved Me Wrong"
tags: writing
---

I decided to challenge myself: write every single day. No excuses.

I started back in [November 1st, 2024]({% post_url 2024-11-01-SellingVsHelping %}). This is my daily post #200. I thought I didn't have anything to share. If we think a post has to be 100% original, we seldom write. And the truth is there's nothing 100% original.

I also thought I'd run out of ideas. But [the first 100 daily posts]({% post_url 2025-02-09-100DailyPosts %}) proved me wrong and another 100 convinced me it's possible.

## My most-read and favorite posts

Here are some of the most-read posts from the last 100 days:
* [How to Demotivate Your Development Team]({% post_url 2025-04-04-DemotivateYourTeam %})
* [10 Ways to Stand Out at Work—Other than Work Hard]({% post_url 2025-02-26-StandOutAtWork %})
* [9 Subjects I've Changed My Mind About as a Software Engineer]({% post_url 2025-03-19-ChangedMyMind %})
* [What Frustrates Me the Most as a C#/.NET Developer]({% post_url 2025-02-28-Frustrations %})
* [You're Not a Programmer Until...]({% post_url 2025-02-19-YouAreNotAProgrammerUntil %})

And here are some of my favorites:
* [How MedAI Will Transform Hospitals and Patient Care by 2035]({% post_url 2025-04-20-MedAI %})
* [12 Hard Truths About Coding I Learned the Hard Way After 10 Years]({% post_url 2025-04-17-HarshTruths %})
* [9 Lessons from Writing 10 (Bad) Ideas Daily to Become an Idea Machine]({% post_url 2025-03-23-BecomingAnIdeaMachine %})	
* [I Never Knew Kidneys Mattered—Until Dialysis Hit Close to Home]({% post_url 2025-04-02-KidneysDoMatter %})
* [Why You Should Change Jobs—According to Jesus]({% post_url 2025-04-03-JesusEffect %})

## What posting daily has done for me

Posting daily has:
* Made me conscious of the content I consume
* Made me think of posts as public notes
* Made me remember past stories

Some days I almost broke my streak. Some night, near mid-night, I had to rush to finish my post for the next day.

[Writing 10 ideas a day]({% post_url 2024-11-05-IdeaMachine %}) to become an idea machine has helped me keep my writing goal. Some of my 10-idea lists have inspired or become posts.

Writing daily has become part of my healthy routine. It has sharpened my writing skills and helped me document ideas I would have otherwise forgotten.
