---
layout: post
title: "A Love-Hate Letter to Coding"
tags: coding career
---

_This is my submission for the [IndieWeb Carnival May 2026](https://hamatti.org/posts/indieweb-carnival-write-a-love-letter/)._

Dear coding,

Our story didn't start with love at first sight. You weren't my first option. Sorry! But when we started to hang out, everything clicked. There was chemistry!

First, it was a textbook on C/C++ in college. Then, it was a recipe catalog in PHP late at night. Then, it was Java. Then, [our first adventure in the real world]({% post_url 2024-09-02-LessonsFromMyFirstCodingJob %}) with C#. Then, building, fixing, growing—what others would call "passion."

I enjoyed the time we spent together. It was [the challenge]({% post_url 2025-03-18-ADayInTheLifeOfACoder %}), the victory dances, the aha moments at the most unexpected times...It was funny, rewarding, almost magical.

But something felt off. The passion faded, and then one day, everything changed.

I don't blame you. It was the corporate world, [Scrum and its ceremonies]({% post_url 2024-12-11-SelfManagedTeam %}), unrealistic deadlines, office politics...They all ruined our thing. I stopped waking up eager for you. I didn't want to talk or read about you. [I got sick]({% post_url 2026-02-22-Digestion %}). [I got burned out]({% post_url 2025-03-22-IsBurnoutInevitable %}). I got tired of us.

Then, to make things worse, [a layoff set us apart]({% post_url 2024-12-05-HowALayoffFeels %}).

It was a hard time. We stopped seeing each other. Nobody hired me to be with you again. And I stopped looking.

It was a long time away. Honestly, I didn't miss you. I thought we would never cross paths again. After months of applications, hope arrived in an unexpected email. Someone wanted us back together. But things can't be the same after a breakup. We now need [boundaries]({% post_url 2025-03-03-Boundaries %}) and space.

Coding, I sometimes hate you. I sometimes dream about a life without you. But you rewired my brain, making me see the world with different eyes, and that's why I'll always love you.
