---
layout: post
title: "Two Small Acts of Kindness That Made My Day"
tags: misc
---

It's sales day, and the whole grocery store is crowded.

_"We have to be patient, right?"_ a guy said to me. I'm in the butchery section. The guy is frantically walking from one side of the aisle to the other, phone in his hand.

_"I have 70,"_ he said when I asked what turn he had. _"I have 94, and I only need one chicken breast,"_ I told him while taking my U-shaped ticket out of my pocket. The display shows 64 in red LED lights. We both laughed. He knew I was more screwed than he was.

A few minutes later, when it was finally his turn, he came running from another aisle. I asked him if he could order the chicken breast for me. He was kind enough to do it. I smiled and told him he had just saved me about an hour.

After thanking him again, I walked around to give away my 94. You know, to return the favor. The guy with the 95 accepted it. _"Well, one turn earlier,"_ he said.

I thought I only needed a couple of things, but after walking around, I ended up with my hands full. It's not the first time that has happened, even when I had a to-buy list.

Later, while in line to pay, an old lady behind me handed me the cart she was using. _"I'm only buying a few things,"_ she said.

Wow! Sometimes I lose hope in humankind, but a guy ordering for me and a lady handing me her cart made my day.

_**Lesson:** You don't have to give away money to make someone's day...And somehow, you'll always end up buying more than expected—even with a list. So pick a cart._
