---
layout: post
title: "Five Changes I'd Like To Make On My Blog"
tags: misc
---

To keep myself accountable, here's a list of changes I'd like to make on my blog:

**#1. New About copy.** I still have the one from the days I was looking for a full-time job as a coder. That's not the case anymore. These days, I'm a digital writer with a part-time coding job.

**#2. More recent "Start Here."** The "Start Here," on my [About](/about), dates back to my full-time coding days, with only tutorials. Google and AI have killed tutorials. And I'm not writing as many coding tutorials anymore.

With metrics from other platforms, [I follow POSSE]({% post_url 2024-12-15-BloggingWorkflow %}), it's time to update it with my most liked content.

**#3. New tags.** This started as a coding blog. Five years ago, [my first post]({% post_url 2023-07-18-FiveYearsOfBlogging %}) was a coding tutorial. Over time, it became my small corner, where I write about almost anything.

In 2024, when I started [my daily writing challenge]({% post_url 2025-02-09-100DailyPosts %}), I created a [/misc](/tags/misc) tag. But, naturally some patterns have arisen,
* Health
* Experiments
* Book writing
* Random thoughts
* Personal development

**#4. Book page.** On the left sidebar, I feature [my projects](/projects) and open source contributions. It's time to feature my books instead.

In the last year, I updated [Start Testing](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/unittesting101/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=five-changes-id-like-make-blog) and launched [Street-Smart Coding](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/unittesting101/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=five-changes-id-like-make-blog). And I'm about to finish [another book experiment]({% post_url 2026-02-01-BookExperiment %}).

**#5. On this date widget.** Sometimes I've written "On This Date" posts, like [this one]({% post_url 2025-10-05-AroundThisDate %}) and [this one]({% post_url 2025-02-12-AroundThisDay %}). I write about the posts from past years written on the same date. I'd like to create a small widget to automate that. Under every post show 2 posts from previous and following years.

That's one of [the best parts of having a blog]({% post_url 2025-05-02-Blogging %}): you can tweak it however you want. Try beating that, social platforms!

_**Update (Mar 2026):**_ Here are the changes I've made so far:

* I updated the Start here section on [my about](/about).
* I created these tags: [wellness](/tags/wellness), [self growth](/tags/selfgrowth), [book writing](/tags/bookwriting), [experiments](/tags/experiments).
* I wrote a [books page](/books)

_**Update (Apr 2026):**_ More changes:

* I made the left bar scrollable.
* I tweaked [my homepage](/) and [my about](/about).
