---
layout: post
title: "10 Reasons Why Star Wars Is One of The Best Movie Franchises"
tags: misc
---

To warm up [my idea muscles]({% post_url 2025-06-17-TenIdeas %}) and celebrate May 4th, here's why Star Wars is the best saga:

**#1. A proven story.** A constant fight between good and evil, light and darkness, bright side and dark side. We see that in almost all religions.

**#2. Full of action, alien species, locations, futuristic weapons.** You'd never imagine how diverse life is _in a galaxy far, far away._

**3. A story for all family members.** It's a war saga, but no matter the battles, treason, and plots, there's no blood or sex on screen.

**#4. Well-known cast.** I only imagine our moms and aunts' generation going crazy seeing Harrison Ford on the screen in the original trilogy. Natalie Portman, Ewan McGregor, Liam Neesson...

**#5. Legendary quotes that became part of the pop culture.** _"May the Force be with you,"_ _"Do or do not. There's no try."_ Even I've adopted [one Star Wars line as a mantra]({% post_url 2024-11-16-QuotesToLiveBy %})...and couldn't help but include some references in [my books](/books).

**#6. Reflection of human nature.** With the right or wrong motivations, we could become what we fight. The fear of losing a loved one turned Anakin into a cruel being. I mean, executing Order 66 without hesitation?!

**#7. The best and cruelest of all villains.** Even if you haven't seen the movies, you know about Darth Vader.

His mysterious suit, his breathing sound, his tone of voice, his motivations, his ruthless methods make him terrifying. _"Be careful not to choke on your own aspirations..."_ right after choking someone? The best villain.

By the way, here's what I'd write [if I were Darth Vader brand strategist]({% post_url 2025-05-04-DarthVader %}).

**#8. The most iconic plot twist in the history of cinema.** _"No...I am your father."_ Toy Story made a parody and The Simpsons made fun of that scene.

**#9. More than a trilogy.** It's such a great story that has given birth to prequels, sequels, spin-offs, videogames, animated movies, comics. If you're a fan, you'll never get bored of Star Wars.

**#10. Grogu and Mando.** Whoever came up with the idea of a cute, baby Yoda is a genius. I bet they should already have a good raise or stock package. Mandalorian has brought new fans to the saga. _"This is the way!"_
