---
layout: post
title: "My Favorite Seth's Riffs"
tags: writing
---

Yesterday, I found [Seth Godin's riffs](https://sethsriffs.com/): a collection of his best quotes from his blog. He's [one of the writers I've stolen from]({% post_url 2026-06-27-Stealing %}).

Here are my favorites:

## _"Seek out the smallest viable audience, not the largest possible one."_

The smallest viable audience is you: who you were years ago or who you are now.

Write or create for your younger self. And if you make something just for you, [at least one person will like it]({% post_url 2026-02-14-SomethingYouLike %}).

That's why I write some of [my books](/books) for my younger self.
And they're a success if at least one person outside my circle buys them.

## _"Write until you are not afraid to write."_

I published my first LinkedIn post in 2024, years after writing my first blog post.

But even after hundreds of posts, I still was [afraid of hitting "Post."]({% post_url 2024-12-02-FearOfPublishing %}) I thought people will make fun of me. I only logged in after a couple of days of publishing. Just entering my password felt threatening. But nobody really cared.

Prove yourself wrong!

## _"There's no such thing as writer's block. There's fear of bad writing. Simply write."_

Sure, there's fear of bad writing.

But I've suffered from _"I have too much on my head"_ block.
When that happens: pause and handwrite everything you have on your mind. Empty your cup. Or walk. [Walking fixes almost everything]({% post_url 2026-07-01-Walk %}).

And there's also _"I need momentum"_ block.
When that happens: read others' blogs and [find something to steal]({% post_url 2025-02-16-ForgetWritersBlock %}). When you find something, stop reading and write your own.

## _"We're not born a genius, it's a skill. And skills can be learned."_

With enough time, everything is figurable.

You don't need 10,000 hours to reach mastery.
There are shortcuts. OK, "shortcuts" sound like cheating.
Instead, let's call them: [learning strategies for faster results]({% post_url 2025-05-27-SkipTheLine %}).


