---
layout: post
title: "7 Non-Fiction Writers I've Shamelessly Stolen From"
tags: writing
---

Art is stealing.

Stealing means blending your sources into something new: an artistic smoothie.
Not that I consider my writing "art," but here are 7 writers I've stolen from:

## #1. James Altucher.

He's the writer who has inspired me the most.

I read almost all his books and hand-copied his posts to practice.
[Some of the ideas that have changed my life]({% post_url 2026-03-04-10SimpleIdeas %}) came from his bankrupt stories.

I've stolen his storytelling-heavy style and the obsession with [opening lines of books]({% post_url 2025-05-09-BleedInTheFirstLine %}).

## #2. Seth Godin.

Before getting seriously into writing, Seth was the first blogger I followed and studied.

I've borrowed his concept of a "post":
A headline and a couple of sentences are enough to publish.
After finding his blog, I didn't feel the need to write SEO-optimized guides anymore.

When I'm tempted to quit blogging, I remember Seth sharing about his 10,000th post.

## #3. Derek Sivers.

From Derek, I've stolen [his succinct writing]({% post_url 2026-04-04-DerekSivers %}) and his practice of [giving each sentence its own line]({% post_url 2026-03-31-BetterSentences %}).

After reading some of his books, I adopted concise, self-contained chapters.
That was the inspiration for [Street-Smart Coding Manifesto]({% post_url 2026-06-15-Manifesto %}).

## #4. Austen Kleon.

Austen was the writer who taught me to steal.

He wrote [Steal Like An Artist]({% post_url 2025-11-08-StealLikeAnArtist %}):
So I'm stealing from another thief.
No shame in admitting it.

After reading two of his books, I stole his book structure.
Each book is 10 ideas, one idea per chapter, with doodles and drawings.
Its back cover lists those 10 ideas.

That was where I stole the concept for [10 Surprisingly Simple Ideas That Changed My Life]({% post_url 2026-03-04-10SimpleIdeas %})—without the doodles.

## #5. Tim Denning.

[My first writing class]({% post_url 2024-12-26-WriteDaily %}) was with Tim.

Tim taught me to [write daily]({% post_url 2026-04-08-WriteDaily %}) and to start every piece with a strong 1-line opener.
Hope you noticed it at the start.

## #6. Mark Thompson.

Mark is a veteran marketer I found on Medium.

Instead of email sequences for "nurturing," he teaches [a simple system to make money with words]({% post_url 2025-10-11-ContentThatSells %}).
I stole it along with some of his CTAs, almost to the tee.

## #7. Craig Mod.

I don't know how I found Craig's blog. Maybe through someone's blogroll?

I spent an entire afternoon reading his community roundups.
When I was done, I said, _"I want to do that too."_

Craig inspired [my horizon goal]({% post_url 2026-05-26-HorizonGoal %}): _documenting my life into books._
And when I start my "behind the scenes" community, I'll proudly steal from him.


