---
layout: post
title: "10 Ways My Blogging Changed After 8 Years"
tags: writing
---

Like an 8-year-old boy, my blog has grown and changed.

In case you missed it, [yesterday my blog turned 8]({% post_url 2026-07-18-EightYearsOfBlogging %}).
The project and habit I've kept for the longest.

Here's what I'm doing differently:

**#1. No more SEO-optimized posts.**
Google killed blogging as a business.
Then LLMs put the last nail in the coffin.

I wrote my first posts to rank high in Google search results.
I chose subjects and headlines from Google's "People also asked" and related searches.
Not anymore.

**#2. More subjects apart from coding.**
I don't know what category to put my blog on.

[coding](/tags/coding), [csharp](/tags/csharp), and [career](/tags/career) are still the categories with more posts.
But this isn't a coding blog anymore.
It's more like a workshop in a garage with the door always open.

**#3. From tutorials to lessons to stories.**
As I mastered coding, I took public notes in tutorials.
While [recovering from burnout]({% post_url 2025-08-11-Present %}), I shared lessons I wish I had known.
These days, I like my blog to be a collection of stories, thoughts, and observations.

**#4. From bi-weekly to daily posting.**
To please the SEO gods, I wrote every other week.
Too many blog posts was a bad idea for SEO.
Not anymore.

After [my first writing class]({% post_url 2024-12-26-WriteDaily %}), I started to write daily.
I was shocked to hear I should write daily.
I thought I had nothing to say.
But I haven't stopped since [Nov 1st, 2024]({% post_url 2024-11-01-SellingVsHelping %}).

**#5. A new definition of post.**
A post isn't a keyword-optimized 2,000-word piece anymore.

A descriptive headline and a few lines count as a post.
Anything longer than a tweet works to call it a day.

I also stopped adding covers and feature images.
Posting daily made them a waste of time.
[An idea I stole]({% post_url 2026-06-27-Stealing %}) from Seth Godin.

**#6. Few meta-sentences.**
I don't like them...and I don't use them.
We don't pick up a phone and say, _"In this call, I'm going to share..."_
And before hanging up, we don't say, _"In this call, we covered..."_

**#7. Each sentence on its own line.**
This is [a writing exercise]({% post_url 2026-03-31-BetterSentences %}) I learned recently.
A writer's work is to write good sentences.
A good piece is just a chain of good sentences.

Sometimes I publish with each sentence on its own line.

**#8. My blog as my central hub.**
In some shape or form, all my ideas start and end on my blog.
No more exclusive content for social media.

**#9. Offer a helpful next step.**
Just like Netflix offering you a similar show.
There's no shame in offering something (free or paid) at the end of a post.
Making money online doesn't have to be that hard: [offer a helpful next step]({% post_url 2025-10-11-ContentThatSells %}).

**#10. Books are my main vehicle.**
I don't ask for coffee anymore or plug my coding courses.
Who still watches tutorials or [reads technical content]({% post_url 2026-07-13-TechContent %}) anyway?

Instead, my best ideas end up in [books](/books).
That's [my horizon goal]({% post_url 2026-05-26-HorizonGoal %}).

Books have longer lifespans.
We're still reading the Odyssey, Bible, and Meditations.
Maybe one day, in the distant future, people will read mine.

_I do drink coffee, but I don't like to ask for it. If you'd like to support this blog, grab one of my short and actionable [my books](/books) on coding and personal growth. You can pay what you want via Gumroad. They're also available in Kindle and paperback formats via Amazon._
