---
layout: post
title: "The Secret to Surviving 30 Years In One Job (And to Live a Happy Life)"
tags: career wellness
---

## In a line at the grocery store...

_"Sorry, did I mishear, you said you've been here 35 years?"_ I asked her.

While waiting, I skimmed the books on the shelves and overheard the cashier talking to the client in front. When it was finally my turn, I couldn't help but ask her.

_"30! I have 30 years,"_ the cashier told me. _"The girl at the bakery section has 35. She was about to leave last year. She's leaving next May."_ It was April.

## Staying for so long at a place...

Curious and surprised, I asked her, _"How did you manage to stay so long at a single place?"_ To me, 30 years at the same job sounds like a life sentence.

_"Take it easy!"_ she said while smiling. _"Don't let anyone ruin your day!"_ She kept scanning items without pause. _"How long have you been in your job?"_

Earlier that day, a pointless task from a freelancing client made me want to throw my laptop against the wall. Her words came at the perfect time.

_"I got bored or they got bored of me. The longest I've stayed at a place is 5 years."_ That was at my last full-time job as a coder. [I burned out]({% post_url 2025-05-13-PrioritizeHealth %}) while waiting for a promotion. Months later, [the company laid off]({% post_url 2024-12-05-HowALayoffFeels %}) almost everyone, including me.

_"You have to take it easy. There are clients that..."_ she said while shaking her head.

## When someone does it...

_"There's only one who ruined my days..."_ The smile on her face disappeared.

_"A boss?"_ I asked her while expecting to hear some gossip or horror stories from working at a grocery store.

_"My first husband... That one sucked the life out of me. That's why I left him."_ Beep... Beep... She kept passing the products all that time. _"I was skinny... When I left him, everybody said they could see the change."_

Years ago, 30 years in one place sounded like a career wasted. Now I know some people thrive in structure. Others in change. Others take a boring job to fuel their hobbies. Whatever your path, smile, take it easy, and never let anyone suck the life out of you. And if it's your partner or your job doing it, leave them.
