---
layout: post
title: "The Hidden Web of Google Documents (And 10 Creative Ways to Use It)"
tags: misc
---

Big cities have "content" in odd places:
* A gummy bear in a wall
* A love letter in a metro wagon
* A motivational message in a bridge

Thanks to James' [new ways of storytelling](https://orbific.com/new-ways-of-story-telling/), I learned the Internet, like a big city, has odd places for art too:
Google Docs.

They're a corner of the internet away from social media, search engines, and AI.
They form a gray web: _The Doc Web._
A term coined by Elan Ullendorff, [originally in a Google Doc](https://escapethealgorithm.substack.com/p/the-doc-web).

## Join the Doc Web

And to practice [my 10-idea list habit]({% post_url 2025-06-17-TenIdeas %}), here are 10 ways to adopt the Doc Web as a writer, solopreneur, or creative:

**#1. A book:**
Publish it by sharing a read-only public url.
If anyone wants to download it, they can create a copy.

**#2. A landing page:**
Use headers, bold, italics, underline and include a call to action on the last page.

**#3. A micro-blogging platform:**
Tweet by adding a timestamped paragraph at the top.
Share it with "commenters" permission and you'll have replies.

**#4. A poll application:**
Want to collect questions for an AMA or Q&A session?
Share a document and ask people to leave one question per paragraph.
They can upvote a question by increasing its font size.

**#5. A survey or questionnaire:**
Share a document with your multiple-answer questions.
People answer with a "+".

**#6. A membership area:**
Use your members' email to give restricted access to a document with your exclusive content.

**#7. A guestbook (a la Facebook wall):**
In your blog, link to a public Document for anyone to sign it.

**#8. A magazine or episodic publication:**
Use a single document as the latest edition.

To release a new version:
* Make a copy of the last edition
* Overwrite the original content, and
* Link to the previous edition

**#9. A bookmarking service (a la Delicious):**
Whenever you find an interesting link, add it to a public document.
Keep it organized with an index on the first page.
Share it with friends.

**#10. A forum:**
Start each question on a new page.
Include the creator's display name and timestamp.
Answer by adding your name and a timestamp before your reply.
Use comments to start threads.

To run your next membership or community, the Doc Web is all you need.
And to [start a blog]({% post_url 2024-09-23-StrugglingToWrite %}), forget about hosting and domains.
You already know what to use instead.
A Doc. Why not!
