---
layout: post
title: "Almost Quit At 500 Daily Posts: My Reflection On Daily Blogging"
tags: writing
---

The last 100 posts felt like a real stretch.

I wanted to quit blogging for a while. But I reminded myself: like an athlete, a writer must practice daily, or at least consistently. And stumbling upon [Seth Godin's 10,000 daily posts](https://seths.blog/2025/04/this-is-number-10000/) inspired me to keep pushing. I know I'm far from hitting that number.

Lately, focusing on my health has hurt my streak.

To [have healthy sleeping patterns]({% post_url 2026-03-11-Sleep %}), I've started going to bed every day at the same time. That has meant skipping my daily post sometimes. So I tweaked [my blogging rules]({% post_url 2026-03-03-BloggingRules %}) to repair my streak the next day with another post. By the way, I also [made some changes to my blog]({% post_url 2026-03-03-Tweaks %}).

For these last 100 posts, balancing health and writing wasn't easy, but it taught me the value of [doing nothing]({% post_url 2026-01-17-DoNothing %}) and resting after a sprint of intense work.

I learned that lesson from launching another book, _[10 Surprisingly Simple Ideas That Changed My Life And Could Change Yours Too]({% post_url 2026-03-04-10SimpleIdeas %})_, while trying to balance other projects. Writing that book was [a book experiment]({% post_url 2026-02-01-BookExperiment %}) I ran in February. It already made [its first sale]({% post_url 2026-03-07-BookExperiment %}) and earned [its first review]({% post_url 2026-03-15-BookExperiment %}).

## My most-read and favorite posts

Here are some of the most-read posts from the last 100 days:

* [Two Inspiring Business Lessons From Repairing a Blender (And Why I Almost Quit Online Hustles)]({% post_url 2025-12-08-RepairingBlender %})
* [I Spent a Week Without Social Media—And Realized I'm Just Another Junkie]({% post_url 2026-02-24-NoSocialMediaWeek %})
* [How to Be an Expert at Failing (and Survive to Tell the Story)]({% post_url 2026-01-27-ExpertAtFailing %})
* [Why You Should Write and Underline in Books]({% post_url 2026-01-20-WritingInBooks %})
* [A Simple Idea to Reduce My Phone Time]({% post_url 2026-01-22-LessScrolling %})
* [What to Do to Thrive in the AI Era]({% post_url 2026-03-05-AIProofed %})

Here are my [100-post]({% post_url 2025-02-09-100DailyPosts %}), [200-post]({% post_url 2025-05-20-200DailyPosts %}), [300-post]({% post_url 2025-09-01-300DailyPosts %}), and [400-post]({% post_url 2025-12-06-400DailyPosts %}) reflections.
