---
layout: post
title: "The Numbers That Deflate the AI Hype About Replacing Coders—and Ease FOMO"
tags: coding
---

Only 25% of developers regularly use _AI agents_, according to Sonar's survey.

After [surveying more than 1,100 developers](https://www.sonarsource.com/state-of-code-developer-survey-report.pdf) across the globe, they found:
* 90% of respondents use AI for assisting development. But only 55% of them rate AI as "extremely or very effective."
* 96% don't fully trust that AI-generated code is functionally correct.
* 48% always check their AI-assisted code before committing.

**Why this matters:** We're flooded with headlines predicting the end of coders.

[AI generating more than X% of code at a FAANG]({% post_url 2024-12-08-CEOVsJanitor %}). One CEO suggesting nobody else should learn to code. To then retract himself saying that replacing senior coders with AI is crazy. And companies using AI innovation as an excuse for more layoffs.

Those numbers show CEOs spread panic to bump stock prices and fuel the euphoria. [The real motivator isn't productivity, but financial interest]({% post_url 2025-10-15-AIRealReason %}).

**What to do:** If you think you're [missing the whole AI movement]({% post_url 2025-12-28-AIFomo %}), let the dust settle down. Double down on the fundamentals, not [shiny objects]({% post_url 2025-01-30-ChasingShinyObjects %}). Maybe it's time to pick _Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs_ or any classical textbook.

With 96% not trusting AI, code reviewing, clean code, and security remain essential. Don't throw away your copy of Clean Code. And even [if AI takes over]({% post_url 2025-12-21-Offerings %}), there's work for human coders to do. 

It's easy to fall into the AI hype. AI wins on speed. But humans win on communication, collaboration, and problem-solving skills.

[Street-Smart Coding](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcoding/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=post&utm_campaign=numbers-that-deflate-ai-hype-replacing-coders) covers some of those skills. Follow this roadmap to build hype-proof skills and become the kind of coder AI can't replace.
