---
layout: post
title: "re: Couriers, Not Coders (Syntax Isn't The Edge Anymore)"
tags: coding
---

_"How many tables did you use?"_

_"One or two...I don't know."_

A coder said that while demoing a feature to a client.
C'mon! You wouldn't forget that detail unless you had memory issues.

While screensharing, I noticed he had Codex open—another coding agent.
It wasn't a memory issue after all.
Someone has been prompting, right?

I remembered that quick exchange when reading Yegor Bugayenko's [Couriers, Not Coders](https://www.yegor256.com/2026/05/03/no-mercy.html).

He wrote,

> _Working code is now the minimum. We expect discipline, speed of delivery, clear and detailed communication, and readiness to re-work. Above all, we expect you to understand our rules and obey them._

I loves his take.

When code is almost free, the edge isn't in lines of code.
The genie in the bottle can grant coding wishes to anyone, with enough tokens, credits, or whatever.

AI isn't taking our jobs yet.
And even if it does, [there's still work to do]({% post_url 2025-12-21-Offerings %}).
But our job descriptions are already different.

The real edge has never been writing syntax.
It's [thinking like a product owner]({% post_url 2026-06-17-Edge %}).
It's [knowing what to build]({% post_url 2026-06-17-Edge %}).
Now it's [doing what AI can't]({% post_url 2026-01-05-Mantra %}).

We can't just be coders, but couriers—or [street-smart coders]({% post_url 2026-06-16-StreetSmartCoder %}), as I prefer to call it.

_If you're curious about going beyond syntax, check out [Street-Smart Coding Manifesto](https://imcsarag.gumroad.com/l/streetsmartcodingmanifesto/). Because real impact comes from skills outside your IDE._
