---
layout: post
title: "The Most Painful Career Lesson My Best Job Taught Me"
tags: career wellness
---

_This is a submission for the [2026 WeCoded Challenge](https://dev.to/challenges/wecoded-2026): Echoes of Experience_

The most toxic job I ever had didn't break me.

I've had only one job that fit all the definitions of a toxic place. Inexperienced management, competing deadlines, scope creep... To cope with the 9-5, I hung out with coworkers, worked out, and engaged in hobbies. That kept me sane. But it wasn't the job that burned me out. It taught me enough lessons for a book.

The way to the exit door was clear. _When the pain is real. So is the urge to leave._

## The job that burned me out

A few years later, I landed my best job.

I was [working from home]({% post_url 2025-03-03-Boundaries %}), learning new subjects, and making a good salary. It wasn't Silicon Valley, but it was where most coders wanted to be. It turned out more painful than my "worst" job.

Everything was good until the honeymoon ended. Another project doing the same tasks. No new roles for me. All seats were already taken. Same grind, same story.

This time, the way out wasn't that clear. [Updating a CV]({% post_url 2024-10-07-TipsToWriteBetterCVs %}) to play the hiring game made staying seem tolerable. _"The pay is good."_ _"I don't work overtime."_ _"I'll wait until I finish this project."_ Meanwhile, hiring trends were tougher and tougher each year.

The next thing I knew, I was rushing to the bathroom. It wasn't to throw up, but I'll spare the details.

My job became a burden. I rushed to finish my daily tasks and skipped my meals. Painful mistake! That brought [stomach issues]({% post_url 2026-02-22-Digestion %}). When I least expected it, I was sick and burned out. The way down was slow. But [the way up was more painful and slower]({% post_url 2025-05-13-PrioritizeHealth %}).

**Lesson:** If it makes you sick, you don't need more signs to leave.

## My most painful and expensive career mistake

Not having a career plan was my biggest, most painful, and expensive mistake.

I didn't stop to think what I wanted out of my career. Money, title, connections, challenge? Maybe my only plan was to gain experience and make some money. Whatever that meant for my past self.

**Lesson:** Choose wisely. Or wait to leave when sick, bored, fired, or burned out.

A plan or intention would have made me move out and saved me a lot of pain. But like a frog in a pot, the water wasn't boiling, it was slowly heating up. By the time I noticed the exit sign, the damage was already done.
