---
layout: post
title: "How I Use LinkedIn Mindfully (In 5 Simple Steps)"
tags: misc
---

One day at the office, I created my LinkedIn account to escape that job.

That was five or six years ago. That afternoon, my coworkers and I made it a group activity. We endorsed each other's skills and exchanged recommendations. We were planning our escape route because things were getting tough.

I didn't find my next job on LinkedIn. But I made my first internet money there. And that kept me going back.

In 2024, I revived my account after months of inactivity. After landing a new job, I stopped logging into LinkedIn.

Since then, I've written over [300 posts]({% post_url 2025-06-15-LinkedIn %}). I've [preached the same overused cliches]({% post_url 2025-10-02-ConsistencyIsKey %}), [stumbled upon weird situations]({% post_url 2025-07-27-LinkedInWeirdness %}), and learned that [people don't read, but skim online]({% post_url 2025-09-28-TooLong %}).

From job hunting to posting daily, to [ignoring all gurus' growth advice]({% post_url 2025-08-05-LinkedInStrategy %}), I've learned meaningful use matters more than virality. 

## 5 steps to use LinkedIn more consciously (ignoring growth hacks)

Here's what I do to use LinkedIn more consciously:

**#1. Use it with a timer.** Like other platforms, it's designed to trap you. One notification can spiral into hours of doomscrolling.

**#2. Curate your feed.** Your feed is a rabbit hole.

To curate it, follow:
* People you know in real life
* People you want to connect with
* People sharing interesting ideas

**Pro tip:** Avoid scrolling down your feed by bookmarking profiles you want to interact with.

**#3. Share interesting things.** Nobody cares about another Udemy certificate. Use it to share your learning or resources you find useful. Finished an interesting book? Share what you learned with a photo of the cover. Working on a project? Share a lesson learned.

And please, please [don't try to sound corporate]({% post_url 2025-11-30-TheOnlyWritingGoal %}). If you're typing _"Dear LinkedIn network,"_ stop and start again.

**#4. Keep in touch with your network.** Send quick "Hello" to old connections: bosses, coworkers, recruiters... Don't use AI. Keep it as human as possible. _"What are you up to these days?"_ works perfectly fine.

**#5. Use comments wisely.** Most influencers preach about commenting more and more like the ultimate growth hack. That's another rabbit hole.

Use comments to start genuine conversations instead. Reply to interesting comments and follow up with connection requests. _"Hey, your comment about XYZ got my attention..."_ Again, be human. That's how I met a top cellist, an award-winning teacher, a speaking coach, and many more interesting people.
